theLender Fannie Mae – Conforming & High Balance Primary Residence – Owner Occupied Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV 97% Conforming. 1 Unit Purchase / Rate Term 620 95% High Balance/ARM 2-4 Units 95 1 Unit 80 Cash-Out Refinance 620 2-4 Units 75 Manufactured Home - Primary Residence – Owner Occupied Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV Purchase / Rate Term 640 1 Unit 95 Cash-Out Refinance 640 1 Unit 65 Second Home Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV Purchase / Rate Term 620 1 Unit 90 Cash-Out Refinance 620 1 Unit 75 Manufactured Home – Second Home Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV Purchase / Rate Term 640 1 Unit 85 Investment Property – Non-Owner Occupied Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV 1 Unit 85 Purchase 620 2-4 Units 75 Rate / Term 620 1-4 Units 75 1 Unit 75 Cash-Out Refinance 620 2-4 Units 70 High Balance Minimum – All States, All Counties Transaction 1 Unit 2 Units 3 Units 4 Units All types $726,200 $929,850 $1,123,900 $1,396,800 • DU will return an ineligible result. We will accept Approve/Ineligible (DU) due only to the loan amount more than the 2023 loan limits. • A full appraisal is required for the expanded loan limits. o Appraisal waivers are not allowed with an ineligible decision. o Area within the current 2023 high-cost limits, appraisal waivers remain eligible. • Loans more than current 2023 County loan limits, and up to the expanded loan limits, will be eligible and priced as conforming high balance. Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. Page 1 of 3 Revised: 03/20/2024 theLender Fannie Mae – Conforming & High Balance Program Details Topic Guideline Fannie Mae Guidelines: Guidelines https://www.fanniemae.com/singlefamily/originating-underwriting Note: Located under “Selling Guide” FHFA Conforming Loan Limits: Loan Limits https://www.fhfa.gov/DataTools/Downloads/Pages/Conforming-Loan-Limits.aspx Minimum Loan Amounts • Minimum Loan amount $50,000 1031 exchanges • Allowed • Transferred appraisal are OK subject to conditions • All appraisals must be ordered through an AMC • The broker cannot be the Lender/Client Appraisal • Appraisals must be uploaded to UCDP and receive a “successful” Submission Summary Report (SSR). • Appraisals by appraisers & supervisory appraisers on the Fannie Mae AQM list are not eligible. Assets • Third party validation of all checking and savings accounts is required DU® Approve/Eligible required. AUS • Manual underwrites not allowed • Maximum 4 borrowers per loan. • Maximum 4 loans to 1 borrower and up to $1.5M • All non-U.S. citizen Borrowers must provide documentation of lawful permanent or non- permanent residency Borrower Eligibility • All Borrowers must be a natural person or an eligible inter vivos revocable trust. (Also see Leasehold Estates and Land Trusts.) • Borrowers who are Foreign Politically Exposed Persons or who have Diplomatic Immunity are not eligible. Condo Eligibility New construction and gut rehabilitation condos are not allowed. • Subject property with unit size less than 650 square feet • Condo projects with any units less than 400 square feet • Manufactured home condo projects (MHCP). • Condotels, Hotel Condos, hotel/motel conversions including: Condominiums – o Condo projects that: both include registration services and offer the rental of ineligible property types units for a term of ≤30 days; o share facilities with a hotel or motel; o offer services typically provided in a hotel or motel such as maid service, management desk, bellman, etc.; o restrict owner’s ability to occupy the unit. Credit • Payoff or pay down installment debts to qualify, follow Fannie Mae Selling Guide. Credit score • Each borrower must generate a traditional credit score from at least one repository. Credit Report • RMCR or traditional tri-merge is required for all borrowers on all loans. Down Payment • Must be approved by Credit Management Assistance (DPA) • Government and Quasi-government entities only Energy Efficient • Not Allowed Mortgage • Unless in violation of applicable state law, LTVs >80% require escrows. For primary Escrow / Impounds residences & second homes, mandatory flood insurance must be escrowed, unless paid by HOA as a common expense. Escrow Holdback • Not Allowed Geographic Restrictions • Any state theLender is not licensed in – see www.thelender.com Housing Authority • Section 8 vouchers, Housing Authority subsidies are not eligible. Subsidies • IRS Form 4506-T must be signed prior to underwriting for borrowers whose income is IRS 4506-T documented with tax returns. Authorization must coincide with the years of tax returns obtained for qualification. Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. Page 2 of 3 Revised: 03/20/2024 theLender Fannie Mae – Conforming & High Balance • Borrowers whose income has been validated through the DU validation service must sign IRS Form 4506-T at closing even if DU waives the requirement. Leasehold Estates and Land Trusts, Community Land Trusts, including Illinois land trusts, “Indian Leased Land” are not Land Trusts eligible. • Eligible Manufactured Home • 640 min FICO Mortgage Credit Not allowed Certificate Mortgage Insurance - Minimum or reduced mortgage insurance coverage is not permitted. Obtain standard coverage. Reduced Acceptable MI Types: • Borrower Paid Monthly Mortgage Insurance • Borrower Paid Single Premium • Financed: Gross LTV cannot exceed theLender’s program maximum • Lender Paid Single Premium • No "General" POA. POA must be “specific and identify property. Power of Attorney • No POA for trusts, cash out, non-owner or non-occupant borrowers. Property Deed Deed restricted properties are not eligible, unless the restriction is age-related, and otherwise Restrictions meets the applicable Agency guidelines. • Refinance transactions are not eligible if there is evidence of churning and/or Net Tangible Benefit is not established. Property Flipping, • Purchase transactions with property flipping or rapid resale within 90 days require Purchase Contract additional scrutiny for price manipulation Assignments, Churning • Transactions with purchase contracts that have been assigned are not eligible. • If listed within prior 6 months, must be removed from market on or prior to disbursement date of new loan. The following are not eligible: • Assisted living • Board and care facilities • Boarding houses • Bed & breakfast • Non-warrantable condo projects Property, Ineligible types • Co-Ops and Condition • Exotic or non-traditional types of structures, e.g. dome homes, houseboats, Land loans, vacant or unimproved properties • Mobile homes or on-frame modular • Working farms or ranches • Indian (Native American) tribal or Trust Land, or “Indian Leased Land.” • Property ratings of C5, C6, and Q6 are not allowed unless issues that caused these ratings are cured prior to funding. Property Condition and • Properties with a Condition Rating of C5 – Not Allowed Quality Ratings • Properties with a Quality Rating of Q6 – Not Allowed Property Eligibility Land Trusts, including Illinois not allowed. Rehabilitation Loans Not Allowed Resale/Deed restrictions are not permitted; with the exception of age restricted communities Resale Restrictions (55+), within program guidelines Credit and appraisal documents may not be dated more than 120 days from the date of the Construction to Perm conversion to permanent financing Subordinate Financing A certified copy of the subordination agreement or equivalent is required, if re-subordinating. Tax Transcripts W-2 transcripts for wage earners are acceptable Tax Repayment Plan Per agency guidelines Temporary Buydown Allowed – See buydown matrix Texas Cash-out Fixed rate mortgage only – Subject to Texas 50(a)(6) restrictions Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. Page 3 of 3 Revised: 03/20/2024 
