 VA MATRIX Transaction FICO Number of Units Maximum LTV/CLTV Primary Residence – Owner Occupied Purchase 580 1-4 100%/100% Cash Out Refinance 580 1-4 100%/100% VA IRRRL 580 1-4 125%/Unlimited Manual Underwrites 620 1-4 Per VA Guidelines Product Highlights Topic Guideline VA Lenders Handbook: Guidelines https://benefits.va.gov/warms/pam26_7.asp VA Mortgage Limits https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/purchaseco_loan_limits.asp Loan Limits For purpose of determining the VA guaranty, Lenders are instructed to reference only the One-Unit Limit column in the FHFA table Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Maximum Loan Limits. Minimum Loan Amount $50,000 4506 Transcripts Transcripts are required per income documentation type included in the loan file. Cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, may NOT be used for down payment funds or closing Assets funds. These types of funds must be backed out of the borrower’s assets. DU or LPA is allowed AUS • LPA requires theLender to pull a new credit report. An AVM is required on all VA IRRRLs for determination of LTV ratios, unless • The subject property was purchased within the most recent 12 months, original purchase price may be used for determination of LTV ratios, or AVM • If no AVM is used the LTV will be based on the current outstanding loan balance. * Note: Refer to VA IRRRL Net Tangible Benefit section for LTV determination • Maximum four borrowers per loan. • All borrowers must be natural persons • Must be a qualified Veteran and spouse • Non-U.S. citizens must provide proof of lawful residency • Permanent Resident Alien: Borrower Eligibility • Veteran: Copy of Permanent Resident Alien card and Certificate of Eligibility • Spouse: Copy of Permanent Resident Alien Card • Non-Permanent Resident Alien: • Veteran: USCIS Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card) and Certificate of Eligibility • Spouse: USCIS Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card) For VA IRRRL transactions: Cash Back to the Borrower –IRRRL • Maximum $500 Except as noted below, all VA IRRRL and Cash-Out refinance loans, including payoff of a construction loan, the note date of the new refinance loan must be on or after the later of: Cash-Out & IRRRL Seasoning • The date that is 210 days after the first payment due date of the loan being refinanced, and • The date on which the sixth monthly payment is made on the loan being refinanced. 1 Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. This document is limited to current Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender and practice and should not be construed as legal advice, legal opinion, or any other advice on specific facts or circumstances. Such policy and practice is subject to change. The recipient should contact its legal counsel for legal advice. For business and professional use only. Not for consumer distribution. All loans subject to approval and not all products are available in every state. Certain conditions and fees apply. Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender NMLS #133519. Equal Housing Opportunity – All Rights Reserved. 03.2022 VA MATRIX Topic Guideline VA loans Refinancing Non-Mortgage Debts secured by the subject property such as tax or mechanic liens are not subject to the seasoning requirements stated above. VA loans refinancing mortgages without scheduled monthly payments such as reverse mortgages, are not subject to the seasoning requirements. Permanent Financing Construction Loans may or may not be subject to the Seasoning Requirements depending on the circumstances; Cash-Out & IRRRL Seasoning • In cases where the permanent financing is guaranteed under VA’s Loan Guaranty Program as a Refinance transaction, the seasoning requirement must be met • If the loan is structured and guaranteed as a Purchase transaction, the loan is not subject to the seasoning requirements stated above. Similar to VA loans refinancing mortgages without scheduled monthly payments, certain permanent financing construction loans may be exempt from the seasoning requirements when the construc- tion loan that is being refinanced, by its own terms, doesn’t provide for a minimum of six-monthly payments. Condominiums All condominium projects must be VA approved. Credit Score 580 Min All borrowers must have a valid credit score from at least one repository. Deed Restrictions Age related deed restrictions are allowed • No maximum with AUS approval. • 50% for manually underwritten files. DTI • Manual DTIs over 41/41 require compensating factors • VA IRRRL – For credit qualifying transactions, DTIs>41% require residual income that is 120% above the required amount for the Veteran’s Family size The following loan documents may not contain e-signatures: • Notes and Riders to the Note; Electronic Signatures • Security Instruments and Riders to the Security Instrument; • Notices of Right to Cancel (Rescission); and • Powers-of-Attorney. Escrow (Impound) Waivers Not Allowed. Escrows accounts for taxes, insurance and any additional items are required. For an IRRRL that results in a lower monthly principal and interest payment, all fees except taxes, amounts held in escrow, and fees paid under chapter 8 of the VA lenders Handbook must be recouped by the savings from the lower monthly payments within 36 months of the note date. Fee Recoupment - IRRRL For an IRRRL that results in the same or higher monthly principal and interest payment, the Veteran must incur no fees, closing costs, or expenses other than taxes, amounts held in escrow, and fees paid under chapter 8 of the VA lenders Handbook. • Foreign Nationals. • Borrowers who are politically exposed. Ineligible Borrowers • Borrowers with diplomatic immunity. • Non-Resident Aliens • Coverage must be equal to or greater than the loan amount • “Guaranteed” replacement cost is acceptable Hazard Insurance Note: a cost estimator from the insurance company must be provided if the above is not met to deter- mine if coverage is adequate • VA Supplemental Loans • VA Native American Direct Loans • Farm Residence VA Loans • 1-4 Units with a Business Unit • Land Loans Ineligible Programs • Graduated Payment Mortgage (GPM) • Growing Equity Mortgage (GEM) • Rural Housing • Loans to Native Americans on Trust lands • Energy Efficient Mortgage (EEM) • Texas Cash Out – A(6) 2 Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. This document is limited to current Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender and practice and should not be construed as legal advice, legal opinion, or any other advice on specific facts or circumstances. Such policy and practice is subject to change. The recipient should contact its legal counsel for legal advice. For business and professional use only. Not for consumer distribution. All loans subject to approval and not all products are available in every state. Certain conditions and fees apply. Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender NMLS #133519. Equal Housing Opportunity – All Rights Reserved. 03.2022 VA MATRIX Topic Guideline • Properties with ratings of C5, C6, Q6 • Assisted living facilities • Board and care facilities • Bed and breakfast establishments • Commercial property • Co-ops Ineligible Properties • Dome or log homes • Hawaii properties in Lava Zones 1 and 2 • Houseboats • Manufactured homes in condo projects or mobile home parks Mobile homes • Native American lands • Working farmers and ranches • Properties with zoning violations Joint Loans (Vet/Vet or Vet/Non-Vet) Require review by the jurisdictional RLC or as required by the RLC Leasehold Not Allowed. • Allowed Manufactured Homes • 640 minimum FICO Manual Underwriting Allowed per VA requirements with minimum 620 FICO score. Marijuana Related Income received from a marijuana related business or employment may not be used as qualifying in- Business/Employment come. • $1,500,000 for all states Maximum Loan Amount • 700 FICO required for all loan amounts over $1,000,000 • For refinances in which the original loan being refinanced and the new refinance loan both have a fixed mortgage interest rate, the interest rate must be reduced by a minimum of 0.50%. • The lower interest rate may not be produced solely from discount points unless: • Such points are paid at closing, and • Such points are not added to the principal loan amount, unless: Net Tangible Benefit • The discount point is less than or equal to one discount point when LTV ratio is less than or equal to 100%. • The discount point is less than or equal to two discount point when LTV ratio is less than or equal to 90% • A Drive by or full interior/exterior appraisal, or an AVM is required when discount points are added to the principal balance of the loan. Non-Traditional Credit Not Allowed. United States law requires a Veteran obtaining a VA loan to occupy the subject property as his/her primary residence. • Occupancy must occur within 60 days after loan closing. • Occupancy by the Veteran’s spouse or dependent children satisfies the occupancy requirements for a Veteran who is on active duty and cannot occupy the property within 60 days. Occupancy Requirement • Single or married service members, while deployed from their permanent duty station, are con- sidered to be on temporary duty status and able to meet the occupancy requirements. • The occupancy requirement is met if the Veteran will retire within 12 months. Retirement must be verified with a specified date and the retirement income must be used to qualify for the loan. The use of the subject property as a seasonal home does not meet VA requirements. 1-4 unit owner-occupied primary residence (2-4 unit ineligible on high balance). Occupancy Type - IRRRL 1 unit second home (ineligible on high balance). 1-4 unit investment (ineligible on high balance). PACE/HERO Obligations Not Allowed. Power of Attorney May not be used on cash-out refinance transactions 3 Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. This document is limited to current Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender and practice and should not be construed as legal advice, legal opinion, or any other advice on specific facts or circumstances. Such policy and practice is subject to change. The recipient should contact its legal counsel for legal advice. For business and professional use only. Not for consumer distribution. All loans subject to approval and not all products are available in every state. Certain conditions and fees apply. Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender NMLS #133519. Equal Housing Opportunity – All Rights Reserved. 03.2022 VA MATRIX Topic Guideline • 1-unit: none • 2-4 units • Rental income not used to qualify: none Reserves • Rental income used to qualify: 6 months • 3 months reserves if borrower owns other real estate. Reserves are based on PITI of REO property • Reserves not required if rental income not used to qualify Sales Concessions Must not exceed 4% of the sales price or appraised value whichever is less Sales Contract Assigned sales contracts are ineligible. Not allowed on purchase transactions. Secondary Financing Cash-Out Refinance: • New secondary financing is not allowed Section 8 Vouchers Not Eligible State Restrictions Texas 50(a)(6), not allowed. Temporary Buy Down Not Allowed • Regardless of the location of the property, a termite inspection is always required if the appraisal report indicates evidence of wood-destroying insect damage or an active infestation. • Termite inspections are required on properties if the property is located in an area where the probability of termite infestation is “very heavy” or “moderate to heavy” as shown on the Termite Infestation Probability (TIP) Map published in The Council of American Building Officials (CABO) one and two family dwelling code. • If there is a question about the location of an infestation or probability boundary line in rela- tion to the subject property, contact the VA Regional Loan Center of jurisdiction to determine if the requirement is applicable. • The pest control operator must meet all requirements of the state where the subject property is located. In states which require the use of a state inspection form, the state form is acceptable for VA purposes. • Inspection reports are valid for VA purposes for 90 days from the date of inspection. • Termite reports must be clear of all active infestation, dry rot, fungus infections and earth to wood contact. Termite Reports Termite reports and clearances are required in the following states: • Alabama, Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and West Virginia • *Required on all existing residential properties including condo projects that are five stories or less in height. Termite reports and clearances are required in certain Counties of the following states: • Michigan: Allegan, Barry, Berrien, Branch, Calhoun, Cass, Hillsdale, Ionia, Jackson, Kalamazoo, Kent, Lenawee, Livingston, Macomb, Mason, Monroe, Muskegon, Oakland, Oceana, Ottawa, St. Clair, St. Joseph, Van Buren, Washtenaw, and Wayne. • New Hampshire: Belknap, Cheshire, Hillsborough, Merrimack, Rockingham, Strafford, and Sullivan. Termite reports and clearances are not required in the following states: • Colorado Oregon and Washington • The use of a Verification of Employment (VOE) and/or a Verification of Deposit (VOD) only is not allowed. Verification of • At a minimum paystubs and bank statements are required. At their discretion, underwriters Employment/Verification may require additional income/asset documentation. of Deposit/Verification of Mortgage/Rent • When the borrower’s current lender or landlord is a private party, the use of a Verification of Mortgage (VOM) or Verification of Rent (VOR) only is not allowed. • Copies of the borrower’s most recent, consecutive 12 months cancelled checks are required. 4 Mortgage Professional Use ONLY. Not for Consumer distribution. Overlays subject to change without notice and may not address product specifics. Items not covered will default to appropriate agency guidelines subject to Credit Risk Review and/or approval. This document is limited to current Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender and practice and should not be construed as legal advice, legal opinion, or any other advice on specific facts or circumstances. Such policy and practice is subject to change. The recipient should contact its legal counsel for legal advice. For business and professional use only. Not for consumer distribution. All loans subject to approval and not all products are available in every state. Certain conditions and fees apply. Hometown Equity Mortgage, LLC, DBA theLender NMLS #133519. Equal Housing Opportunity – All Rights Reserved. 03.2022 
